The Joe Rogan experience. Yeah. It's just, to me,
it seems like if you pay attention to the track,
if you track technology, like where it's going, things constantly improve. They,
we, we demand constant innovation and we're already wearing these things
on our body and watches.
Now a lot of people were in the apple watches and the Samsung and all the Google
watches. And it just seems inevitable that it somehow,
or another advances to a point where there's a chip or something you wear,
or some plate that they put on the back of your head and screw in.
Yeah. But then you watch like black mirror and.
It, I know that is.
The problem. Well, then that'd be good.
I mean, but do you have a sense of history that you are,
first of all,
you're amongst one of the rare human beings that has ever been in space and then
two you're working for a company that is at the very tip
of the spear of innovation. Like the,
you are at the front of the line in terms of creating
viable methods of sending people into space and returning them.
I, I feel extremely fortunate, you know,
that to have that experience I had at NASA, um, and had the visceral experience,
the incredible experience of, of flying in space, uh, doing spacewalks,
operating robot, arms, launching on rockets and all that.
And then coming to space X and being there, uh, at, in,
in the relatively early days and, and being there for seven years, um,
I feel like, uh, you know, I feel pretty satisfied that I can get to see,
I got incredibly lucky to see these things and be in a room where it happens,
you know? Uh, it's, it's pretty remarkable now. Uh,
so now I'm, I'm, uh, now I'm still a consultant at space X, but I'm a, uh,
full-time professor at USC.
So now I'm teaching and I'm also working on TV shows.
So now I'm like taking those incredible experiences.
I had opened up a lot of other doors and like I ended up was like, for example,
work, working on this TV show. I find myself like in a,
in a writer's room with a whole bunch of really talented creative people.
When does knowing a million years I would,
this would ever happen to me if it weren't for these incredible experiences,
I was lucky enough to have, you know, it's like, that gets even,
that gets really surreal.
I could only imagine. I mean, I can only imagine, I mean,
especially coming from your childhood,
having that image on your wall and now really being a part of this massive
change in the way human beings are going to be able to travel in space. Yeah.
And what is, tell us about this TV show,
cause you were talking to me about it off air before we started. Yeah.
So this, this is a, for all mankind it's on apple TV and um,
the, the way I got involved with this thing, uh,
I was a big fan of bow saw Galactica the too. Yeah.
The reboot was awesome. Wasn't it? Oh, that's oh, so underrated. Yeah.
One of the best science fiction shows.
Ever. Yeah. I mean, it was like in the early days of kind of like peak, I guess.
And it was like, um, it was just so good. I mean,
the writing was so good and the whole concept and everything. Yeah. All the,
all the things that we're exploring in, uh,
science fiction is always as best when it's like an allegory and the way they
explored things that were happening in society like terrorism and stuff. Uh,
the way they were able to depict it. As in aside in an alternate universe,
I thought it was spectacular.
Brilliant, brilliant.
Show. So I'm watching it on the space station,
which is like the best place to watch that. That's crazy.
Do you use an iPad or something like,
how do you have things stored or is there a TV up there?
There's, there's no TV, but there's,
we have all these laptops so they could send us files and you can,
you can give them like four shows that you, like.
How long does it take for a show to download in space?
Whether they download it for you, which is nice while you're,
while you're working. And then when you're,
when you're ready to watch you just pop up.
So is it like a satellite can connection, internet, satellite?
Uh, it's, it's kinda, it's a,
it's a KU band system that goes to satellites that aren't part of NASA
satellites. So called teacher satellites.
So the data goes up to teachers and then down at ground stations to white sands.
And then.
So what kind of bandwidth you getting? What's your latency?
You don't remember the numbers, but, um, we weren't getting, when I was there,
we weren't getting live internet, uh,
because all that bandwidth is being used for science to get,
then all the data from the experiments and the video.
You can check your Twitter. You can, now.
You can, now you can now I just missed that. Terrible. Yeah. It's probably.
Yeah. It's about a distraction. Yeah. Yeah.
Just Google search and random things where you're supposed to be doing your job
at space. Yeah. So you,
you get these shows and you're watching Battlestar Galactica.
Bellsa Gretta Colby rapport, daily show and like New York Yankees games.
So I'm like, wow, that's what I'm watching.
Wow. Are you watching, you know,
I'm watching the Yankees games in real time right now, pre.
Pre recorded.
Oh, wow.
Still though. So it was just, that was a nice, like, like a bit of home that,
you know,
like I would play the radio broadcast while I was working and it just in the
background. And so I feel like,
hear the crack of the bat and it's kind of like you're in space,
but you still kind of connected to home.
That seems like something that would go on in a movie.
Like some guy who's working on a spaceship and the movie is listening to a
baseball game, go, three.
Balls, two strikes.
Doesn't it really does seem very like some classic George Clooney
movie about space. Yeah. It's real. Wow, man.
How weird did that feel so surreal that you were that guy up there with a
laptop?
Yeah. I mean, you and I battle Battlestar,
I'm watching Battlestar and they're like,
now I'm in the final season and they're like finding earth and I'm like,
it's right there.
You're, you're in a spaceship.
How many people have watched Battlestar Galactica while in a spaceship?
You might be the only person ever.
Well, my commander was watching it too, so it was at least two and two of us.
Um, but, but so they ask you like,
are there any celebrities you'd like to chat with while you're up there and they
will go out and get them for you, that kind of morale boost thing. Oh, wow.
And so I said, I want to talk to Ron Moore and David Eick. Oh,
we're the creators of Battlestar. So we had this great Skype session.
Wow. It was so cool. And that's why before I was going to mention this,
when we were talking about, um, you know,
science fiction and science fact and had this as crazy feedback loop about,
you gotta think about it first.
Like you go back and look at 2001 and he see these guys using tablets
in 1960 was in 1968. That movie came out and, you know,
Steve jobs saw that and said, I want to, I'm going to make one of those. Right.
And, um, so there's this crazy like interplay between fiction and fact.
And, um, and I got to talk to Ron Moore about all this and in,
in any invited me to, uh, come on the set for the,
for the final episode of Battlestar. Wow.
And you're not supposed to like the first 30 days,
you're back from a long duration mission.
You're not supposed to like go anywhere. And I'm like, uh, look,
they're only going to shoot this once. You know, it's, it's two weeks from now.
I'm going. And the last time I checked, this was a free country I'm in,
I can stop me.
So I went and I went all the way up to Vancouver and I got to go on the set.
I met all the cast. I got to be a focus polar on the camera guy got to do that,
that, that sticks, you know, oh, wow. I just had a blast.
And then he made me an extra as a colonial Marine in the back of a ship that
gets blown.
I'm sure that show is super complicated to make,
but I would love if they brought it back. Yeah.
I don't think people appreciate it enough. Cause it was on Saifai,
which is not the most popular network.
And it's also a reboot of a classic show.
So maybe it had like a bit of a stink to it,
but that was so much better than the first version of it. The comparison.
Great show. It's really intense.
It's.
Really, really well-made.
I like everything about it from the plot to the acting. It's it's sensational.
This is my favorite scifi show of all time, for sure. Yeah.
Me too.
It's blasphemy me for star Trek fans, but it's really good. It's good, man.
I mean, you couldn't have it without star Trek.
You couldn't have it without the original Battlestar Galactica,
but at the end of the day.
Yeah. They all kind of build on each other and that's what,
and so then Ron went off and did Outlander after that. Oh, okay.
And now he came in one day, he calls me up and he says, uh, I got this new idea.
Can I come by? Could we can get together?
And maybe I could bounce the idea off of you. I was like, yeah.
So he came to space X and then I gave him a tour of the place. And then, uh,
we sat down at the, in the cafe and uh, he said, okay.
So I'm thinking about doing a show about NASA back in like the seventies
and be kind of like a period piece would be kind of like,
we'd have a cast of characters, but they're all working on Apollo. Um,
and it would be true to real life,
but it would be the drama of the people behind the scenes. I saw.
It sounds pretty cool. He goes, yeah.
I'm also toying around with a slight twist that where we use an alternate
reality and in his alternate reality, uh, things,
we start at that point, but things turn out differently.
And we start talking about like how close the Russians were to actually beating
us to the moon, which not a lot of people know about,
but when I was over there in Moscow, I got to see actually they're in,
they have a warehouse where they still have their lunar Lander, for example,
that they built, they were really working hard on it.
So we started what iffing like, well, what if the Russians got there first?
What would it, what would America done? How,
how would things be different today?
If that seminal moment of Neil and buzz stepping out on the moon was
instead Alexa and the owner of a cosmonaut doing it. Right. And I was like,
that is freaking genius. I mean, that was like, uh, I thought,
I w I want to see that show. That's like a great premise.
And he pitched that to apple and they bought it and then he called me up and he
said, do you want to work on the show? And I'm like, yeah, that's that's so.
What is your role? What do you do there?
I'm a technical consultant. One of a couple. We have a, we have a,
another group of people, a couple of other people that help out too,
but I get involved in like everything.
So I was in the writer's room where we're first coming up with basic ideas and
sketching out like multiple seasons and character arcs and all that kind of
stuff. And then I got to,
then I get all the scripts and I read them all and I give notes on all the
scripts. And then they come to the set and I, I meet with the actors, the cast,
and I give them suggestions about like, how to look real when they're in space.
Uh, and then I like work with the VFX guys. I work with the stunt team. Uh,
I get phone calls from like the hair and makeup people. Like,
how did what a ladies do with their hair? If they have long hair,
when they do a spacewalk, I'm like, you're calling the wrong guy, but,
but I can ask a friend. Right. So, so, uh,
so all that was so much fun for me. It's like, you know,
you know how,
like you can pay a whole lot of money and go to fantasy baseball camp. Yeah.
And like, you get to like,
have batting practice with the Dodgers or something and they humor you because
you paid a lot of money. Well, it's kind of like that.
I keep waiting for them to say like, okay, uh, the fund is over,
get out of here, go back to your day job, you know? But I'm like,
I'm just loving it.
So how much correcting do you have to do? How much do you get to script and go,
eh, that doesn't happen that you can't do that. That's not.
It, it depends. And every production is different. Uh,
the nice thing about for all mankind is they really, really want to get it.
Right. I've worked on other projects where they say they want to get it right.
But then they like completely blow up the laws of physics and, and you know,
I'm okay with that because the.
Martian with the hand cutting thing. Yeah.
Cause at the end of the day, uh, I said this to some of my students,
like nobody goes to see a movie for the orbital mechanics.
You go for the story, the characters. Yeah.
It's hard.
If you're an expert in something to watch a movie with a fudge stuff and it
doesn't make sense. Yeah. Like for me, martial arts movies,
martial arts movies do dumb. I'm like, come on, man. You know,
or if I watch a movie about a pool player and I can tell the guy can't really
play pool, I get upset. So for you,
when you're watching something like gravity, right. That was a big one.
A lot of people got really like Neil deGrasse, Tyson who hate it. He hated it,
hated it. He went into, I liked it.
And the problem is, now that I have this job,
now I'm getting more persnickety about it. You know, I'm sure now I'm watching.
I'm like, eh, that's not right. But yeah.
Everything, the gravity, the hair that.
I used to, not care though, like when I first saw gravity, I loved it.
Cause it was a good story. It was a grip me.
But you knew that those space stations were not close to each other.
Yeah. The inclinations are, the Orvis is totally different. Doesn't it?
You're going to go from one to the other with a fire extinguisher.
I knew that it was complete. Don't get me wrong.
But that leap where they treating you, like,
you're a moron they're treating you. Like,
there's no way you're going to be able to research this. But something like you,
someone like you rather that's your life. So like, you know, that's nonsense.
So you're sitting there watching some hokey solution for something that would
never work.
Yeah. So if it gets to the point where like,
but that's the beautiful thing about like doing this with television is you
don't have to actually be right. You just have to be believable,
which the bar is like, when I'm teaching my class at USC, uh,
I gotta be right. But when I'm like, yeah, well maybe this could happen.
Right. You know, with the TV show, it's easier.
But this TV show, you're just saying they really want to try to get it.
You really do. Cause it's, it's really important to them. And so yeah.
I've ended up making like wholesale changes to, um,
episodes become like the original idea. I, I try very,
very hard not to interfere with their creative process because they're,
it's really, really good at that. And um, you know, I'm not worthy,
but I'm like, yeah, okay. I see what you're trying to do.
You want this guy to be the hero you want this person to feel remorse.
You want this. And, and, and, and over the course of time,
this person has a change of heart. I get the story. But what if,
instead of doing it this way, what if the events occur like this?
Because this could actually happen. Right?
And so I tried to change it and it was one like, um,
like episode nine and a little bit of episode, 10 of season one, uh,
we ended up sitting,
I ended up sitting and working very closely with the writers and changing the,
all the technical content to fit, to make the story work in a believable way.
And that when, when we do that, and then you see it on the screen,
it's like so incredibly rewarding. It's really fun.
It must be, especially as someone who's a scifi fan, like you've,
you've had two dream lives here, like three or four.
Really.
Incredible that you've gone from that from NASA to space X.
And now to be able to create television shows that you can actually ensure wow,